Now the next one we're going to look at is filter so to understand filter let's go back to our browser
console so filter is very similar to map in the sense that it's also going to take a function that gets
iterated over each element in our array.
So let's do this again except this time I'm going to say my array is equal to 1 3 5 7 9 now.
Filter is exactly as it sounds.
We want to filter out the elements in our array based off of the function that we pass it and filter
will also give us back a new array instead of modifying my array.
So what we're gonna do in order to use filter is we're going to write dot filter and just like earlier
with DOT math we're gonna get the element as the argument over function and what we're going to return
is actually a true or false value.
So let's say for example I wanted to filter out anything that was less than five.
Well I would essentially say if the element is greater than four right so whatever returns true will
be the thing that gets kept in our array.
So whatever element we'll get kept in our array is based on whether or not the evaluation of this is
true.
So if for example we just return true Well we would get back our whole array.
If we return false.
Right.
We would get back nothing so if we wanted just whatever was five or greater then we would say as long
as the element is greater than four because if the element is one one is not greater than four.
Right.
So that will be false and that's why it'll filter out 1 and 3 and this array that we get back is a new
array my array is still the same array and that's what filter is.
So remember that filter also returns back a new array except it filters out the anything where the function
condition returns false.
Anything that returns true it'll keep in the new array.